# DT-bar Experiments

This repository contains the code used to generate the results presented in the paper "Improving the Feature Selection Stability of the Delta Test in Regression" (2022) by Rebecca Marion and Benoît Frénay. This paper presents a new feature selection criterion, delta test bar (DT-bar), that achieves better feature selection stability than related methods, while resulting in regression models with equivalent or better prediction performance. 

Numerical experiments were performed to compare the stability and prediction performance of DT-bar to several existing criteria: the delta test, the gamma test, the product estimator and a bootstrapped version of the delta test. 

## Requirements

Python libraries:

* itertools
* glob
* matplotlib
* numpy
* pandas
* pickle
* re
* sklearn
* scipy
* seaborn
* tabulate
* texttable

## Contents

The following scripts may be used to the generate the results from the paper:

* Process_data_from_raw.py prepares the data from the Data_raw folder and puts it in the Data folder. Statistics about the datasets (number of instances, features, etc.) are gathered and stored in the Data_stats folder.
* Feature_ranking_experiment.py runs the experiment described in the paper and puts the results in the Results folder. This code may take several hours to run (~12 hours or more, depending on the machine used). Most of the run time is for the bootstrapped version of the delta test (about 90%).
* Plot_results.py plots the results from the feature ranking experiment (mean performance of different feature selection criteria for different datasets). These plots are saved in the Figures folder.
* Plot_DT-bar_example.py plots an example of the mean and standard deviation of the DT-bar criterion for different values of the hyperparameter K (neighborhood size), as well as the empirical densities of the criterion for each feature in the example dataset. These plots are saved in the Figures folder.

These scripts depend on functions defined in utils.py and kuncheva.py.

The folders in this repository contain the following elements:

* Data: processed data for the experiments (.pkl file name is the dataset name)
* Data_raw: raw data (.mat file name is the dataset name)
* Data_stats: information about the datasets used 
* Figures: all plots generated by Plot_results.py and Plot_DT-bar_example.py
* Results: performance statistics for the criteria evaluated (.pkl file name includes criterion name + hyperparameter value, if applicable)

## Authors

All code was written by Rebecca Marion, unless otherwise indicated.
